---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
ignite: false
selected: false
author: Radu Gheorghe 
title: "Tuning Elasticsearch for Logs"
---

**Abstract:**

The ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana) is pretty much ideal
for centralizing logs. Elasticsearch indexes all your data by default,
so you can do quick searches and analytics. Maybe even more
importantly, it’s easy to set up: you can get started in minutes if
you’ve done this before, or maybe hours if it’s your first time (we’ll
show the basics in this presentation as well).

So you start using ELK and it’s awesome. This encourages more ideas to
come up. What if I put all my syslog in here, too, next to my Apache
logs, and correlate them? And then someone else wants to put in the
firewall logs, to do some other correlations and create even fancier
dashboards. Soon enough, what used to be a tiny Elasticsearch cluster
turns into quite a budget-eater, falling apart under load. It’s time
to roll up your sleeves and start tuning.

In this presentation, the focus is to share all the important
performance nuggets we learned in years of fiddling with
Elasticsearch. Which caches help and which are just eating heap and
pressuring the garbage collector? How to keep the number of shards in
check, but still make big shards perform? How to provision your
cluster for different types of load (hot data vs archive data)? How to
make good use of the all-too-precious memory? Last but not least,
we’ll look into how you can make your cluster stable so it doesn’t
fall apart under a load spike.

**Speaker:**
Radu Gheorghe
