---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: false
ignite: true
selected: true
author: Sterling Windmill
title: "Agility without fragility: or how I learned to temper paranoia with trust"
---

**Abstract:**
As you might expect, we're intensely focused on security in all that we do at
Duo. We are entrusted with not only securing our own digital assets and
infrastructure but helping customers protect theirs as well. The nature of our
business demands a significant amount of operational maturity and we're
constantly fielding questions about our information security
policies/practices. We aim to be transparent whenever possible and this
occasionally leads to difficult conversations when dealing with customers bound
by specific compliance requirements or internal processes that don't map
directly to our way of doing things. Our operations team exists because our
engineering team was growing too fast to maintain the previously flat reporting
structure and we split the group up by specialization. We're developers focused
on the infrastructure that underpins our service and the overall robustness of
the solutions we provide. We deploy software when it's ready, trust but verify
when it comes to providing production access, and actively distance ourselves
from the notion of having individuals managing infrastructure in a bubble
waiting for change request tickets to come through. This is occasionally
somewhat surprising to customers and auditors alike (yes, even in 2015) and
we've learned a lot over the years in terms of how to follow best practices
without negatively impacting our ability to execute and innovate.


**Speaker:**
Sterling Windmill, Duo Security
