---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
ignite: false
selected: false
author: Alex Howells
title: "Hiring - From Dice Roll to Science"
---

**Abstract:**

As an applicant pursuing a new role, I feel like I'm walking into a
bookmaker and putting â‚¬10 on a pony, without knowing anything about its
genetics or having historical knowledge about performance in races. Winning
gives you a salary and benefits, losing hits where it hurts, "Am I actually
good at this stuff?". Feedback is often simply not provided, and where it
is, you think "WTF?!" more often than not.

It's easy to overlook that sitting on the other side of the table is a
hiring manager who also has a dilemma. There is huge variability in C.V.
format and quality, and no proven correlation between a well-presented
candidate and a high-performing employee. To coin a phrase: it's a goat
rodeo.

The status quo doesn't make sense to me. On both sides of the table, the
stakes involved are massive. Making a bad hire can be hugely costly to an
employer; pursuing the wrong role can be a devastating setback to an
individual. In both cases you wish for a Tardis and ask "How did that go so
wrong?".

As developers and operations professionals, we preach that instrumentation
and monitoring are essential. We have entire conferences (e.g. Monitorama,
Strata, et al) concerning the capture and analysis of data, we've coined
terms like "Big Data", and yet, as an industry we are largely not
practicing what we preach within recruitment despite the criticality of
such decisions.

We're going to embark on a journey down the rabbit hole of hiring, analyse
the common techniques employed in making hiring decisions today, and talk
about opportunities to instrument your processes and the immediate benefits
of doing so, to both the applicant and employer.


**Speaker:**
Alex Howells

